(Page 161 of Heliana's Guide)

Reusing and recycling are key tenets in the life of any mycelian (my-SEE-lee-an). Nothing is waste; rotten food can fatten a pig, a ruined shirt is a bandage waiting to happen, and corpses are new homes in need of a little bit of reinvigoration. Marginalized and persecuted by most societies, Mycelians’ propensity to recycle the recently deceased  often brings them into conflict with other humanoids. That being said, graverobbers and less scrupulous grey market traders have been known to make a pretty penny out of selling ageing Mycelians their next vessels.
## Reuse and Recycle
Mycelians reanimate the bodies of the recently deceased. Understandably, many more ‘civilized’ races disagree with this practice—it’s difficult to meet your uncle again a few hours after interring him. Moreover, Mycelians don’t have the same regenerative abilities as the body’s original inhabitant; wounds are patched over with a web of hyphae, the skin takes on a pale pallor, and the body wears out fairly quickly, lasting six to seven years. Much like hermit crabs wear shells, Mycelians inoculate corpses with microscopic spores, before growing a web of hyphae through the body. Nerves are co-opted, muscles are repaired, and fungal organs replace the internal viscera of the host. The process is entirely biological, but less tolerant denizens of the world often believe these reanimated bodies to be the work of necromancers, treating Mycelians as infectious, living dead. The key to distinguishing a mycelian from a zombie, of course, is the smell. Mycelians carry a hearty, musky aroma like that of a vivacious forest floor. Undead, on the other hand, carry the putrid-sweet scent of decay. After several unfortunate interactions with necromancer-hunters, the Sisters of Mercy began employing dogs, with their keen sense of smell, to help differentiate between innocent Mycelians and undead artifice.
## Ancestors and Aging
With each new host, a Mycelian’s psyche changes a little, moulded by the brain, body, and abilities of the host it co-opts. In moving from one host to
another, a mycelian also leaves behind some of its own memories, forever lost to the decay of time. Despite being potentially thousands of years old, the longest-living communities of Mycelians often have memories stretching back only a few decades. For this reason, Mycelians conduct a ritual shortly before death, where they recant a rhythmic history of their exploits in this host, adding it to the oral history of their community. These oral histories can be days long, and minor word changes (or ‘linguistic decay’ as scholars refer to it) have resulted in tales becoming more and more outlandish. 
## Legend of the Mothershroom
Every mycelian oral history has one thing in common: its beginning. These stories all start with the ‘Mothershroom’, a behemoth fungal organism and progenitor to all mycelians. In some stories, the Mothershroom takes the form of a giant, multi-colored tree. In others, it is a miles-wide web of interconnecting, pulsing hyphae that thrum with thought and feeling. Despite their best efforts, no mycelian, explorer, or scholar has ever found the Mothershroom. Any knowledge of its location—if it even exists—has been lost to the grinding wheel of time. Many Mycelians have embarked on quests to find their ancient ancestor. For some such adventurers, the desire to find this holy figure is the only memory they retain between bodies.

# Cladonia Colony's Mycelians
When the settler's of Last Rights arrives from the sea, they believed the mountainous region to be uninhabited. Unbeknownst to them, spores of a died out colony merely laid waiting for new hosts to jump start their community. One by one as settlers began passing, new Mycelians were born in their place: rising from fields, cliffs, and graves, inhabiting the bodies of the recently deceased. Tensions initially ran high when a population of "undead" began rapidly expanding in this new settlement, but through tense negotiations they discovered their views on the rituals surrounding death and passing to be largely aligned. 
As the first cohabited settlement alongside Mycelians within Last Rights, Cladonia set the standard for how communities in this region would function. The colony was developed over time into a primarily Mycelian-run village between the mountains where the Capital city and the main Port city where settlers first arrived. While a map can point out to you the area of Cladonia's densest population, in practice their borders overlap with the neighboring villages, causing forms of fungi to grow all throughout homes and streets, signifying their connection to the Mycelians.